feat: new ios integration section (#4382)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/multiplatform/multiplatform-direct-integration.md

[//]: # (title: Direct integration)

If you already have a Kotlin Multiplatform and an iOS project and want to develop them simultaneously to share code, you
can set up direct integration through a special `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` script.

This script automates the process of connecting the Kotlin framework to iOS projects in Xcode. It's designed
specifically for the Xcode environment.

![Direct integration diagram](direct-integration-scheme.svg){width="700"}

> The idea of direct integration is to make the Kotlin build a part of the iOS build.

Reviewer: This sentence seems to be illustrated by the diagram, so I'd put it before the image.

Overall, we introduce direct integration as a concept first, and then explain how `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` is a part of it. So I'd combine "This script automates the process..." and "The script is added..." with the rest of the information below the image to visually and narratively separate the concept from the implementation.

Reviewer: It also seems to me that "connecting the Kotlin framework to iOS projects" and "make the Kotlin build a part of the iOS build" are intersecting for the most part. Maybe, again, it would be clearer to use this abstract language only when explaining direct integration, and rely on "...the Kotlin artifact is built and included in
the derived data before running the iOS app build." to convey the role of `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode`.

Author: Thank you! I fixed the script vs gradle task confusion and ended up rearranging the whole intro:

- I looked closely and decided that the best sentence to describe the diagram is "The idea of direct integration is to make the Kotlin build a part of the iOS build.", so I put it before the image
- I also moved the repetitive abstract "makes the Kotlin build a part of the iOS build." to the overview

> The script is added to the run script phase of the iOS app build so that the Kotlin artifact is built and included in

Reviewer: Can "the script is added" rephrased in the active voice somehow?

the derived data before running the iOS app build.

In general, the script:

* Copies the compiled Kotlin framework into the correct directory within the iOS project structure.
* Handles the code signing process of the embedded framework.
* Ensures that code changes in the Kotlin framework are reflected in the iOS app in Xcode.

## How to set up

If you're currently using the CocoaPods plugin to connect your Kotlin framework, migrate first.

### Migrate from CocoaPods plugin to direct integration {initial-collapse-state="collapsed"}

To migrate from the CocoaPods plugin:

1. In Xcode, clean build directories using **Product** | **Clean Build Folder** or with the
   <shortcut>Cmd + Shift + K</shortcut> shortcut.

> 2. In the directory with `Podfile`, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the directory with the `Podfile` file, run the following command:
```

I know it seems clunky, but the grammar just doesn't work for me :)

    ```none
   pod deintegrate
   ```

3. Remove the `cocoapods {}` block from your `build.gradle(.kts)` files.
4. Delete the `.podspec` and `Podfile` files.

### Connect the framework to your project

To connect the Kotlin framework generated from the multiplatform project to your Xcode project:

1. The `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` task only registers if the `binaries.framework` configuration option is
   declared. In your Kotlin Multiplatform project, check the iOS target declaration in the `build.gradle.kts` file.
2. In Xcode, open the iOS project settings by double-clicking the project name.

> 3. On the **Build Phases** tab of the project settings, click the **+** and add **New Run Script Phase**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Build Phases** tab of the project settings, click **+** and select **New Run Script Phase**.
```

   ![Add run script phase](xcode-run-script-phase-1.png){width=700}

> 4. Adjust the following script and add it in the run script phase:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Adjust the following script and copy the result to the run script phase:
```

For me the natural order is "copy to Xcode, then edit there", but I understand that it's good to put "adjust" in the beginning so that people don't forget to do that.

   ```bash
   cd "<Path to the root of the multiplatform project>"
   ./gradlew :<Shared module name>:embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode 
   ```

   * In the `cd` command, specify the path to the root of your Kotlin Multiplatform project, for example, `$SRCROOT/..`.
   * In the `./gradlew` command, specify the name of the shared module, for example, `:shared` or `:composeApp`.

   ![Add the script](xcode-run-script-phase-2.png){width=700}

> 5. Move the **Run Script** phase before the **Compile Sources** phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Drag the **Run Script** phase before the **Compile Sources** phase.
```

>    ![Move the Run Script phase](xcode-run-script-phase-3.png){width=700}

Reviewer: This is totally superfluous, but it would be awesome to have the screenshot with the build phase actually being dragged, like this:

<img width="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e08898ca-4c11-46a9-aad7-581c08aecc3f">

Author: I think we'll need a gif in this case, I'll think about replacing the current image with it

> 6. On the **Build Settings** tab, disable the **User Script Sandboxing** under **Build Options**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On the **Build Settings** tab, disable the **User Script Sandboxing** option under **Build Options**:
```

[//]: # (title: Direct integration)

If you want to develop your Kotlin Multiplatform project and an iOS project simultaneously by sharing code between them,
you can set up direct integration using a special script.

This script automates the process of connecting the Kotlin framework to iOS projects in Xcode:

![Direct integration diagram](direct-integration-scheme.svg){width="700"}

The script uses the `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` Gradle task designed specifically for the Xcode environment.

> During the setup, you add it to the run script phase of the iOS app build. In this case, the Kotlin artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the setup, you add it to the run script phase of the iOS app build. After that, the Kotlin artifact
```
